and it came to pass in those days when
there was no king in Israel that there
was a certain Levite staying in the
remote mountains of Ephraim he took for
himself a concubine from Bethlehem in
Judah but his concubine played the
harlot against him and went away from
him to her father's house at Bethlehem
in Judah and was there for whole months
then her husband arose and went after
her
to speak kindly to her and bring her
back having his servant and a couple of
donkeys with him so she brought him into
her father's house and when the father
of the young woman saw him he was glad
to meet him now his father-in-law the
young woman's father detained him and he
stayed within three days so they ate and
drank and lodged there then it came to
pass on the fourth day that they arose
early in the morning and he stood to
depart but the young woman's father said
to his son-in-law refresh your heart
with a morsel of bread and afterward go
your way
[Music]
surveys sat down and the two of them ate
and drank together then the young
woman's father said to the man please be
content to stay all night and let your
heart be merry and when the man stood to
depart his father-in-law urged him so he
launched there again then he arose early
in the morning on the fifth day to
depart but the young woman's father said
please refresh your heart so they
delayed until after noon and both of
them ate and when the young man stood to
depart
he and his concubine and his servant his
father-in-law the young woman's father
said to him look the day is now drawing
toward evening please spend the night
see the day is coming to an end
Lodge here and your heart may be married
tomorrow go your way early so that you
may get home however the man was not
willing to spend that night so he rose
and departed and came to opposite Jebus
that is Jerusalem with him were the two
saddled donkeys his concubine was also
with him they were near jiva's and the
day was far spent and the servants said
to his master come please and let us
turn aside into the city of the
Jebusites and lodge in it but his master
said to him we will not turn aside here
into a city of foreigners or not of the
children of Israel we will go on to
Gibeah come let us draw near to one of
these places and spend the night in
Gibeah or in Ramah and they passed by
and went their way and the Sun went down
on them near Gibeah which belongs to
Benjamin
they turned aside there to go in to
lodge in Gibeah and when he went in he
sat down in the open square of the city
for no one would take them into his
house to spend the night just then an
old man came in from his work in the
field of evening who also was from the
mountains of Ephraim he was staying in
Gibeah whereas the men of the place were
Benjamites and when he raised his eyes
he saw the traveler in the open square
of the city and the old man said where
are you going and where do you come from
we are passing from Bethlehem and Judah
toward the remote mountains of Ephraim I
am from there I went to Bethlehem and
Judah now I am going to the house of the
Lord but there is no one who will take
me into his house although we have both
straw and fodder for our donkeys and
bread and wine for myself for your
female servant and for the young man who
was with your servants there's no lack
of anything peace be with you
however let all your needs be my
responsibility only do not spend the
night in the open square
[Music]
so he brought him into his house and
gave fodder to the donkeys and they
washed their feet and ate and drank as
they were enjoying themselves suddenly
certain men of the city perverted men
surrounded the house and beat on the
door spoke to the master
bring out the man who came to your house
that we may know him carnal but the man
the master perhaps went out to them and
said to them no my brethren I beg you do
not act so wickedly seeing this man has
come into my house do not commit this
outrage look here is my virgin daughter
and the man's concubine
let me bring them out now humble them
and do with them as you please but to
this man do not do such a vile thing but
the men would not heed him so the man
took his concubine and brought her out
to them
and they knew her and abused her all
night until morning and when the day
began to break they let her go then the
woman came as the day was dawning and
fell down at the door of the man's house
where her master was till it was left
when her master arose in the morning and
opened the doors of the house and went
out to go his way there was his
concubine fallen at the door of the
house with their hands on the threshold
and he said to her get up and let us be
going but there was no answer
so the mam lifted her onto the donkey
and went to his face when he entered his
house he took a knife laid hold of his
concubine and divided her into 12 pieces
limb by limb and sent her throughout all
the territory of Israel and so it was
that all who saw it said no such deed
has been done or seen from the day that
the children of Israel came up from the
land of Egypt until this day
consider it confer and speak up
[Music]
you